readme, tools: add the doc of upgrading Loader or Syncer to DM (#803)
pingcap/docs: tools/upgrade-loader-or-syncer-to-dm.md

---
title: Upgrade Loader or Syncer to Data Migration
summary: This document introduces how to upgrade Loader or Syncer to Data Migration. 
category: tools
---

# Upgrade Loader or Syncer to Data Migration

This document introduces how to upgrade Loader or Syncer to DM (Data Migration).

## Upgrade Loader to Data Migration

Loader is a tool used to load the full data that is dumped from [mydumper](../tools/mydumper.md) to TiDB.

When the `task-mode` of the task DM executes is `full`, DM automatically uses `dumper` to dump data and then uses `loader` to load the data.

To upgrade Loader to DM, perform the following steps:

1. [Deploy the DM cluster](../tools/data-migration-deployment.md).

> 2. Generate the corresponding task configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Refer to [Loader configuration change](#loader-configuration-change) and generate the corresponding task configuration file.
```

> 3. Use dmctl to start the task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [Use dmctl to start the task](../tools/data-migration-manage-task.md#create-the-data-synchronization-task).
```

> ### Configuration change 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Loader Configuration change 
```

| Configuration in mydumper | Corresponding configuration in DM |
| ---------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| `host` | No corresponding option. Configured when DM-worker is deployed. |
| `port` | No corresponding option. Configured when DM-worker is deployed. |
| `user` | No corresponding option. Configured when DM-worker is deployed. |
| `password` | No corresponding option. Configured when DM-worker is deployed. |
| `threads` | `threads` of `mydumper` |
| `chunk-filesize` | `chunk-filesize` of `mydumper` |
| `skip-tz-utc` | `skip-tz-utc` of `mydumper` |

Other options are specified using `extra-args` of `mydumper`. Their usage in DM is the same as that in mydumper.

## Upgrade Syncer to Data Migration

Syncer is a tool used to import data incrementally. The task Syncer executes is corresponding to the synchronization task with `incremental` `task-mode` in DM. The `syncer` processing unit feature of dm-worker in DM is corresponding to the Syncer feature.

To upgrade Syncer to DM, perform the following steps:

1. [Deploy the DM cluster](../tools/data-migration-deployment.md).

> 2. Generate the corresponding task configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Refer to [Syncer configuration change](#syncer-configuration-change) and generate the corresponding task configuration file.
```

> 2. Generate the corresponding task configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Refer to [Syncer configuration change](#syncer-configuration-change) and generate the corresponding task configuration file.
```

> 3. Use dmctl to start the task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [Use dmctl to start the task](../tools/data-migration-manage-task.md#create-the-data-synchronization-task).
```

> ### Configuration change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Syncer Configuration change
```

---
title: Upgrade Loader or Syncer to Data Migration
summary: This document introduces how to upgrade Loader or Syncer to Data Migration. 
category: tools
---

# Upgrade Loader or Syncer to Data Migration

This document introduces how to upgrade Loader or Syncer to DM (Data Migration).

## Upgrade Loader to Data Migration

> Loader is used to load the full data that is dumped from [mydumper](../tools/mydumper.md) to TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Loader is a tool used to load the full data that is dumped from [mydumper](../tools/mydumper.md) to TiDB.
```

Reviewer: Keep it consistent with the following Syncer.

> Loader is used to import the full data that is exported from [mydumper](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/blob/master/tools/mydumper.md) to TiDB.

Reviewer 2: fix link

Author: @kennytm What's wrong with this link?

Reviewer 2: It should point to `../tools/mydumper.md` not `github.com`?

Author: @kennytm Yes, sir @_@

> Loader is used to import the full data that is exported from [mydumper](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/blob/master/tools/mydumper.md) to TiDB.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Loader is used to load the full data that is dumped from [mydumper](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/blob/master/tools/mydumper.md) to TiDB.
```

loader do *load*, and mydumper do *dump* ?

When the `task-mode` of the task DM executes is `full`, DM automatically uses `dumper` to export data and then uses `loader` to import the data.

> To upgrade Loader to DM, you only need to generate the corresponding task configuration file and use dmctl to execute the task.

Reviewer: @csuzhangxc Could you please provide the concrete steps (like 1, 2, 3, ...) that users can directly follow? This one sentence is ambiguous. Users might still be not clear about how to go ahead.

Later, the dmctl link will be added to this doc after that PR is merged.

Reviewer 3: 1. deploy DM cluster
2. generate the corresponding task configuration file
3. use dmctl to `start-task`

> ### Change configuration 

Reviewer: Keep it consistent with that of Syncer.

| `db` | `target-database` |
| `alternative-db` | Deprecated |
| `source-db` | Deprecated |
| `route-rules` | `route-rules` |
| `pattern-schema` | `schema-pattern` |
| `pattern-table` | `table-pattern` |
| `do-db` |	`do-dbs` of `black-white-list`. The filtering feature of databases has been refactored. For detailed configuration, see `do-dbs` in [Data Migration Task Configuration File](../tools/dm-task-configuration-file-intro.md). |  
| `do-table` | `do-tables` of `black-white-list`. The filtering feature of tables has been refactored. For detailed configuration, see `do-tables` in [Data Migration Task Configuration File](../tools/dm-task-configuration-file-intro.md). |  
| `ignore-db` | `ignore-dbs` of `black-white-list`. The filtering feature of databases has been refactored. For detailed configuration, see `ignore-dbs` in [Data Migration Task Configuration File](../tools/dm-task-configuration-file-intro.md). |
| `ignore-table` | `ignore-tables` of `black-white-list`. The filtering feature of tables has been refactored. For detailed configuration, see `ignore-tables` in [Data Migration Task Configuration File](../tools/dm-task-configuration-file-intro.md). |

> | `rm-checkpoint` | Deprecated. A configuration option with a similar feature is `remove-previous-checkpoint`. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `rm-checkpoint` | Deprecated. A configuration option with a similar feature is `remove-meta`. |
```

we have changed this item to `remove-meta`, but forgot to update the CN doc.

Taking the configuration options in [Data Migration Task Configuration File](../tools/dm-task-configuration-file-intro.md) as examples, the corresponding relationship of task configuration options between mydumper and DM is as follows:

| Configuration in mydumper | Corresponding configuration in DM |
| ---------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| `host` | No corresponding option. Fixed when DM-worker is deployed. |
| `port` | No corresponding option. Fixed when DM-worker is deployed. |
| `user` | No corresponding option. Fixed when DM-worker is deployed. |

> | `password` | No corresponding option. Fixed when DM-worker is deployed. |

Reviewer: Is "Fixed" the meaning we want to express? Perhaps "Configured" or "Confirmed" or some other words? @csuzhangxc @CaitinChen

Reviewer 3: maybe "Configured" is better

| `threads` | `threads` of `mydumper` |
| `chunk-filesize` | `chunk-filesize` of `mydumper` |
| `skip-tz-utc` | `skip-tz-utc` of `mydumper` |

Other options are specified using `extra-args` of `mydumper`. Their usage in DM is the same as that in mydumper.

## Upgrade Syncer to Data Migration

> Syncer is a tool used to import data incrementally. The task Syncer executes is corresponding to the synchronization task with `incremental``task-mode` in DM. The `syncer` processing unit feature of dm-worker in DM is corresponding to the Syncer feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Syncer is a tool used to import data incrementally. The task Syncer executes is corresponding to the synchronization task with `incremental` `task-mode` in DM. The `syncer` processing unit feature of dm-worker in DM is corresponding to the Syncer feature.
```

| `do-table` | `do-tables` of `black-white-list`. The filtering feature of tables has been refactored. For detailed configuration, see `do-tables` in [Data Migration Task Configuration File](../tools/dm-task-configuration-file-intro.md). |
| `ignore-db` | `ingore-dbs` of `black-white-list`. The filtering feature of databases has been refactored. For detailed configuration, see `ignore-dbs` in [Data Migration Task Configuration File](../tools/dm-task-configuration-file-intro.md). | 
| `ignore-table` | `ignore-tables` of `black-white-list`. The filtering feature of tables has been refactored. For detailed configuration, see `ignore-tables` in [Data Migration Task Configuration File](../tools/dm-task-configuration-file-intro.md). |
| `skip-ddls` | Deprecated. Use `filters`. |
| `skip-sqls` | Deprecated. Use `filters`. |
| `skip-events` | Deprecated. Use `filters`. |
| `skip-dmls` | Deprecated. Use `filters`. |
| `route-rules` | `route-rules`|
| `pattern-schema` | `schema-pattern` |
| `pattern-table` | `table-pattern` |

> | `from` | `config` of `mysql-instances`. Should be consistent with the upstream MySQL information during the DM-worker deployment. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `from` | `config` of `mysql-instances`. Keep it consistent with the upstream MySQL information during the DM-worker deployment. |
```

Reviewer: The word "should" is a little bit too weak. Using an imperative sentence is clearer.
